# HW 0306 Bonus: How Conversion Works?

資工系 114 級 林振可 (41047029S)

Base on the ISO/IEC 9899:TC3 standard, the C programming language has a set of conversion rules that are used to convert between different types of numbers including integer and floating-point.

## float <-> int32_t

> ### 6.3.1.4 Real floating and integer
>
> When a finite value of real floating type is converted to an integer type other than _Bool, the fractional part is discarded (i.e., the value is truncated toward zero). If the value of the integral part cannot be represented by the integer type, the behavior is undefined.
>
> When a value of integer type is converted to a real floating type, if the value being converted can be represented exactly in the new type, it is unchanged. If the value being converted is in the range of values that can be represented but cannot be represented exactly, the result is either the nearest higher or nearest lower representable value, chosen in an implementation-defined manner. If the value being converted is outside the range of values that can be represented, the behavior is undefined.

### float -> int32_t

For converting a float to an int32_t, the following rules are used:

- If the integer part of the given float can be represented by the int32_t type, the fractional part is discarded, and the result is the integral part of the given float.
- Otherwise, the behavior is undefined. No one knows what will happen, just like black magic.

### int32_t -> float

For converting an int32_t to a float, the following rules are used:

- If the given int32_t can be represented exactly by the float type, the result is the exact value of the given int32_t.
- Then, if the value of the given int32_t is in the range of float type but cannot be represented exactly, the result is one of the higher or lower nearest value to the given value of the int32_t, decided by the compiler implementation.
- Otherwise, the behavior is undefined. No one knows what will happen, just like black magic.

## int32_t <-> uint32_t

> ### 6.3.1.3 Signed and unsigned integers
>
> When a value with integer type is converted to another integer type other than _Bool, if the value can be represented by the new type, it is unchanged.
>
> Otherwise, if the new type is unsigned, the value is converted by repeatedly adding or subtracting one more than the maximum value that can be represented in the new type until the value is in the range of the new type.
>
> Otherwise, the new type is signed and the value cannot be represented in it; either the result is implementation-defined or an implementation-defined signal is raised.

### int32_t -> uint32_t

For converting an int32_t to an uint32_t, the following rules are used:

- If the value of given int32_t is in the range of the uint32_t type, the result is the exact value of the given int32_t.
- Otherwise, the result is the given value plus the maximum value that can be represented in the uint32_t type.

### uint32_t -> int32_t

For converting an uint32_t to an int32_t, the following rules are used:

- If the value of given uint32_t is in the range of the int32_t type, the result is the exact value of the given uint32_t.
- Otherwise, the result is decided by the compiler implementation.

## double <-> float

> ### 6.3.1.5 Real floating types
>
> When a float is promoted to double or long double, or a double is promoted to long double, its value is unchanged (if the source value is represented in the precision and range of its type).
>
> When a double is demoted to float, a long double is demoted to double or float, oravalue being represented in greater precision and range than required by its semantic type (see 6.3.1.8) is explicitly converted (including to its own type), if the value being converted can be represented exactly in the new type, it is unchanged. If the value being converted is in the range of values that can be represented but cannot be represented exactly, the result is either the nearest higher or nearest lower representable value, chosen in an implementation-defined manner. If the value being converted is outside the range of values that can be represented, the behavior is undefined.

### double -> float

For converting a double to a float, the following rules are used:

- If the value of the given double can be represented exactly by the float type, the result is the exact value of the given double.
- Then, if the value of the given double is in the range of float type but cannot be represented exactly, the result is one of the higher or lower nearest value to the given value of the double, decided by the compiler implementation.

### float -> double

For converting a float to a double, the only rule is:

- The result is the exact value of the given float.

## About Undefined Behavior & Implementation-defined Behavior

TL;DR: The **Undefined Behavior** is much more dangerous than the **Implementation-defined Behavior**.

> ### 3.4.1 implementation-defined behavior
>
> unspecified behavior where each implementation documents how the choice is made.
>
> ### 3.4.3 undefined behavior
>
> behavior, upon use of a nonportable or erroneous program construct or of erroneous data, for which this International Standard imposes no requirements.
